[MUSIC]
>> Rachel: Time for
some advanced animation properties.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry,
just before we jump on.
You talked about the empty frame thing.
>> Rachel: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so I'm think I'm
seeing that, cuz I get a little flustered.
>> Rachel: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Can you just pop
back to the current frame,
cuz I wanna see how to rid of that.
>> Rachel: All right.
Another option is you'll
notice in the curriculum under
each one of the exercises,
there's a link to the solution.
So, if you ever want to revisit like whoa,
I saw how you did that,
that was really cool.
Wait, can we go back?
You can always go to the exercises
in the curriculum, and
go visit their solutions on your own.
If you get stuck somewhere, sometimes it's
fun to reverse engineer the solution.
We talked about $name, we talked about
$duration, we talked about delays, and
we talked about easings.
All things that, kind of have something
in common with our good friends over in
transition land, but CSS animation
has another friend in $fill-mode.
This is a very special
CSS animation property.
What it means, it's a little complicated,
animation-fill-mode, it can be
set to backwards, can be set to forwards
and it can be set to both or none.
And what does this mean?
Well, you might have noticed that with
CSS animations, I'm gonna demo this,
because this is one of those things that I
think is better to demo, than to describe.
So, you might have noticed that
when an animation happens,
like sit, the cat will start sit down,
and then he will not sit down.
He will jump back to the beginning.
How animations work is, unlike
transitions, which describe a change,
animations are more like
you're playing a change.
You're saying, you, I want you to do this
and I want you to go there, and then,
when it's over it disappears.
It's like you're playing a CD,
if anybody remember CDs,
it's like you're playing a CD.
The CD just rests, it's not doing
anything, until you say, go to this track,
play, and then when it gets to
the end of the CD, it just stops,
and it goes back to a default
state of not being playing.
It's the same with CSS animations.
CSS animations don't have any effect
on the element they're animating,
until they start playing.
And when they're done playing,
they don't have an effect on that
animation unless you use fill-modes.
With fill-modes you can say, hey, CSS
animation, that element you're animating,
I want it to retain your 0%
properties before it's played.
So whatever that animation is, I want
that element to have that 0% property,
even before it started playing you,
even if it has a delay of five minutes or
it hasn't been clicked yet,
I want you to do that.
You could use, well let's see,
that would be backwards.
You could use fowards, which means
it retains those 100% properties,
even after the animation has finished.
And you can use both, which means it will
retain its 0% properties before it started
playing, and it will retain its 100%
properties after it's finished playing.
And you can use none,
which is default, which is to say,
I don't want you to have any influence
on this element, unless you're playing.
Let me show you this.
So we've got some buttons,
you can make him run.
It goes ready, set, start, but you'll
notice how he just suddenly jumps into
that running position,
he's not like even in a lined up position.
And we can make him sit, and then he just
jumps back into his original position.
Let's use fill-modes to make it so,
yes, and
we are using some JavaScript
to add some classes to him.
We got sitting, we got running.
We were using JavaScript to add some
classes to which we have scoped
some animations.
So you can see that .running
.tuna has a run cycle,
which we've described down here.
And what we wanna do is we wanna say,
that this animation should have
a fill-mode of back backwards.
Is it backwards or forwards?
Let me check, forwards and
backwards, yeah, it's got an s.
I sometimes forget if it should have
an s or not, it should have an s.
should be backwards.
So this way, when we say run he starts
in that kind of leaping position, and
then he'll start running.
That's pretty cool.
Now, the sitting I think
is really obvious,
cuz when you sit him down
he should stay sat down.
You told him the sit, you gave him
an order, and he's not following it.
So, let's set it forwards.
>> Rachel: And you'll notice this
will mean that this 100% value here,
after he's done sitting,
he's gonna retain that value.
And if we inspect him with
the dev tools [SOUND]
we will see that he has
actually retained it.
>> [SOUND]
>> Rachel: No we won't.
Damn!
Dev tools are still trying to
figure out how they display
things that have been animated,
and what their defaults are.
So, this is an interesting thing to keep
in mind, because you could have default
states for everything that are different
when animations are enabled or not.
For instance, say you have an animation
of this cat walking in, and
sitting down at a computer and typing,
and then walking off the screen.
Yes I have done this.
So, what happens if people
have animations turned off?
They're on IE or something.
The cat's not gonna move at all.
So, where's the cat?
What should its default state be?
Well, I would give that
cat's default properties
to be sitting in the middle of
page typing at the computer.
But then, I would use fill-modes to
make sure that if animations are allowed
that the cats retaining that
starting position of 0%.
And retaining the ending
position off screen of 100%.
This way I've created
a bulletproof animation,
where the cat will be on screen for people
who do not get to see that animation, but
he'll behave appropriately
if animations are there.
That might be of concern, I know some
people in the audience work for big banks.
You got a lot of different users.
And not all of them are using
the latest and greatest browsers,
even though it would probably
be in their best interest to.
We can't control or users,
we can only control what they see.
>> Rachel: So, there's something
even more fun than $fill-modes,
and that's &play-states.
I mean, we get $play-state and
we also get something called $direction.
I'm gonna talk a little
bit more about these,
we're going to do some cool stuff
with $play-states and $direction.
So, animation play-state, it defaults
to running that is to say you put
an animation on something, and
you've given an animation in the CSS, and
it will run immediately, or
it'll run after the delay you give it.
But, the point is that it's running,
that's its default.
You could set it to paused.
You could have it so
that that animation isn't running by
default, it's paused on the page.
Why might you do that?
Maybe you only want the animation
to run on hover, or
maybe you want it to pause when
people are hovering over it.
>> Rachel: You have a magical
fairy in the room, and
then there's animation-direction,
which defaults to normal.
So, when you're playing animation like
those walk cycles, we noticed it went from
0% to 100% and then it zip back to
0% around 100% again infinitely.
Well it's the same with, you can change
that, you can set it to alternate,
which will run from 0% to 100%,
then back to 0%.
So, that first iteration
will be 0% to 100%,
that second iteration will be 100% to 0%,
and then back to 0% to 100% for
the third, forever,
like a pendulum swinging back and forth.
You have sent it to reverse,
which would run from 100% to 0%.
Why would you do this?
I don't know cool hover effects,
or alternate reverse,
which is the same as alternate,
except you're doing it in reverse.
You're going from 100% to 0%,
from 0% to 100%.
Maybe you're doing that for
a cool hover effect,
actually I want to play with it now.
But we're not gonna do that today,
we're gonna do that some other day.
That's for another workshop.